BUILD.md, before:

# Taskman

## Compilation

### single-config

```shell
cmake -B build -S . -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
```

#### Compiler et lancer les tests

```shell
cmake --build build --target tests
cd build && ctest -V && cd ..
```

#### Compiler et exécuter taskman

```shell
cmake --build build --target taskman
```

Exécutable

- `build/taskman` (Linux, macOS)
- `build/taskman.exe` (Windows)

### Multi-config

```shell
cmake -B build -S . -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
```

#### Compiler et lancer les tests

```shell
cmake --build build --config Release --target tests
cd build && ctest -C Release -V && cd ..
```

#### Compiler et exécuter taskman

```shell
cmake --build build --config Release --target taskman
```

Exécutable

- `build/Release/taskman` (Linux, macOS)
- `build/Release/taskman.exe` (Windows)

## Dépannage

### « disk I/O error » et fichier `-journal`

Si un `project_tasks.db-journal` (ou `*.db-journal`) est présent, une précédente exécution a été interrompue avant la fermeture propre de la base. À l’ouverture, SQLite tente une récupération ; si une erreur « disk I/O error » apparaît (antivirus, sandbox, système de fichiers), :

1. Arrêter tout processus `taskman` utilisant cette base.
2. Supprimer le fichier `.db` et le `.db-journal` concernés.
3. Relancer `taskman init` pour recréer une base vide.

Commit message:

Refactor BUILD.md for clarity and consistency, updating section titles and descriptions to improve readability. Translate French sections to English and enhance troubleshooting instructions for database errors. Update CHANGELOG to reflect these documentation changes.

BUILD.md, after:

# Taskman

## Build

### single-config

```shell
cmake -B build -S . -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
```

#### Build and run tests

```shell
cmake --build build --target tests
cd build && ctest -V && cd ..
```

#### Build and run taskman

```shell
cmake --build build --target taskman
```

Executable

- `build/taskman` (Linux, macOS)
- `build/taskman.exe` (Windows)

### Multi-config

```shell
cmake -B build -S . -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release
```

#### Build and run tests

```shell
cmake --build build --config Release --target tests
cd build && ctest -C Release -V && cd ..
```

#### Build and run taskman

```shell
cmake --build build --config Release --target taskman
```

Executable

- `build/Release/taskman` (Linux, macOS)
- `build/Release/taskman.exe` (Windows)

## Troubleshooting

### "disk I/O error" and `-journal` file

If a `project_tasks.db-journal` (or `*.db-journal`) file is present, a previous run was interrupted before the database was cleanly closed. On open, SQLite attempts recovery; if a "disk I/O error" occurs (antivirus, sandbox, filesystem):

1. Stop any `taskman` process using this database.
2. Delete the `.db` and `.db-journal` files in question.
3. Run `taskman init` again to recreate an empty database.
