USAGE_MCP.md, before:

# Taskman MCP Server

**Taskman** can run as an **MCP (Model Context Protocol) server** for integration with AI assistants like Cursor. The server reads JSON-RPC requests from stdin and writes responses to stdout.

---

## Usage

```bash
taskman mcp
```

The server runs in stdio mode: it reads one JSON-RPC request per line from stdin and writes one JSON-RPC response per line to stdout. The server continues until stdin is closed (EOF).

---

## MCP Protocol

The server implements the MCP specification (version `2025-11-25`):

- **`initialize`**: Handshake with protocol version and server info
- **`notifications/initialized`**: Notification after initialization
- **`tools/list`**: Returns the list of 13 available tools
- **`tools/call`**: Executes a tool with JSON arguments
- **`ping`**: Health check (returns empty result)

---

## Available Tools

All CLI commands (except `web`) are exposed as MCP tools with the `taskman_` prefix:

| CLI Command      | MCP Tool Name              |
|------------------|---------------------------|
| `init`           | `taskman_init`            |
| `phase:add`      | `taskman_phase_add`       |
| `phase:edit`     | `taskman_phase_edit`      |
| `phase:list`     | `taskman_phase_list`      |
| `milestone:add`  | `taskman_milestone_add`   |
| `milestone:edit` | `taskman_milestone_edit`  |
| `milestone:list` | `taskman_milestone_list`  |
| `task:add`       | `taskman_task_add`        |
| `task:get`       | `taskman_task_get`        |
| `task:list`      | `taskman_task_list`       |
| `task:edit`      | `taskman_task_edit`       |
| `task:dep:add`   | `taskman_task_dep_add`    |
| `task:dep:remove`| `taskman_task_dep_remove` |

Each tool accepts the same parameters as its CLI counterpart, passed as JSON in the `arguments` object of `tools/call`.

---

## Configuration in Cursor

To use taskman as an MCP server in Cursor, add it to your MCP configuration file (typically `~/.cursor/mcp.json` or similar):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "taskman": {
      "command": "taskman",
      "args": ["mcp"],
      "env": {
        "TASKMAN_DB_NAME": "project_tasks.db",
        "TASKMAN_JOURNAL_MEMORY": "1"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

**Environment variables:**

- `TASKMAN_DB_NAME`: Path to the SQLite database file (default: `project_tasks.db`)
- `TASKMAN_JOURNAL_MEMORY`: Set to `1` to use an in-memory journal (recommended when running from Cursor agent to avoid disk I/O errors)
- `CURSOR_AGENT`: When set by Cursor, taskman automatically uses an in-memory journal

**Note:** The `command` path should be either:
- An absolute path to the `taskman` executable
- A command available in your system PATH

---

## Example: Manual Testing

You can test the MCP server manually:

```bash
# Initialize request
echo '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":1,"method":"initialize","params":{"protocolVersion":"2025-11-25","capabilities":{},"clientInfo":{"name":"test","version":"1.0"}}}' | taskman mcp

# List tools
echo '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":2,"method":"tools/list","params":{}}' | taskman mcp

# Call a tool (initialize database)
echo '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":3,"method":"tools/call","params":{"name":"taskman_init","arguments":{}}}' | taskman mcp
```

---

## Error Handling

- **Protocol errors** (invalid JSON, unknown method, unsupported protocol version): Returned as JSON-RPC errors with standard error codes (`-32700` Parse error, `-32600` Invalid Request, `-32601` Method not found, `-32602` Invalid params).
- **Business logic errors** (task not found, invalid phase, etc.): Returned in the `result` with `isError: true` and the error message in `content[0].text`.

---

See also: [README](README.md), [CLI Guide](USAGE_CLI.md), [Web Interface](USAGE_WEB.md). Users: [User changelog](CHANGELOG_USER.md). Developers: [BUILD](BUILD.md), [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md).

Commit message:

Implement mcp:config command for automatic MCP configuration
This commit introduces the `taskman mcp:config` command, which generates or updates the `.cursor/mcp.json` file with the configuration for the taskman MCP server. It accepts parameters for the absolute path to the taskman executable and an optional output file path. The command automatically sets the `TASKMAN_DB_NAME` and merges with existing MCP server configurations. Additionally, the CMake configuration is updated to include the new source files for this command, and the CHANGELOG and usage documentation are updated accordingly.

USAGE_MCP.md, after:

# Taskman MCP Server

**Taskman** can run as an **MCP (Model Context Protocol) server** for integration with AI assistants like Cursor. The server reads JSON-RPC requests from stdin and writes responses to stdout.

---

## Usage

```bash
taskman mcp
```

The server runs in stdio mode: it reads one JSON-RPC request per line from stdin and writes one JSON-RPC response per line to stdout. The server continues until stdin is closed (EOF).

---

## MCP Protocol

The server implements the MCP specification (version `2025-11-25`):

- **`initialize`**: Handshake with protocol version and server info
- **`notifications/initialized`**: Notification after initialization
- **`tools/list`**: Returns the list of 13 available tools
- **`tools/call`**: Executes a tool with JSON arguments
- **`ping`**: Health check (returns empty result)

---

## Available Tools

All CLI commands (except `web`) are exposed as MCP tools with the `taskman_` prefix:

| CLI Command      | MCP Tool Name              |
|------------------|---------------------------|
| `init`           | `taskman_init`            |
| `phase:add`      | `taskman_phase_add`       |
| `phase:edit`     | `taskman_phase_edit`      |
| `phase:list`     | `taskman_phase_list`      |
| `milestone:add`  | `taskman_milestone_add`   |
| `milestone:edit` | `taskman_milestone_edit`  |
| `milestone:list` | `taskman_milestone_list`  |
| `task:add`       | `taskman_task_add`        |
| `task:get`       | `taskman_task_get`        |
| `task:list`      | `taskman_task_list`       |
| `task:edit`      | `taskman_task_edit`       |
| `task:dep:add`   | `taskman_task_dep_add`    |
| `task:dep:remove`| `taskman_task_dep_remove` |

Each tool accepts the same parameters as its CLI counterpart, passed as JSON in the `arguments` object of `tools/call`.

---

## Configuration in Cursor

To use taskman as an MCP server in Cursor, you can either:

### Option 1: Automatic configuration (recommended)

Use the `mcp:config` command to automatically generate or update the MCP configuration file:

```bash
taskman mcp:config --executable /path/to/taskman
```

Or on Windows:

```bash
taskman mcp:config --executable C:\path\to\taskman.exe
```

This command will:
- Create or update `.cursor/mcp.json` (or the file specified with `--output`)
- Use the current directory + `project_tasks.db` for `TASKMAN_DB_NAME`
- Set `TASKMAN_JOURNAL_MEMORY=1` automatically
- Merge with existing MCP servers in the file

### Option 2: Manual configuration

Add taskman to your MCP configuration file manually (typically `~/.cursor/mcp.json` or similar):

```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "taskman": {
      "command": "taskman",
      "args": ["mcp"],
      "env": {
        "TASKMAN_DB_NAME": "project_tasks.db",
        "TASKMAN_JOURNAL_MEMORY": "1"
      }
    }
  }
}
```

**Environment variables:**

- `TASKMAN_DB_NAME`: Path to the SQLite database file (default: `project_tasks.db`)
- `TASKMAN_JOURNAL_MEMORY`: Set to `1` to use an in-memory journal (recommended when running from Cursor agent to avoid disk I/O errors)
- `CURSOR_AGENT`: When set by Cursor, taskman automatically uses an in-memory journal

**Note:** The `command` path should be either:
- An absolute path to the `taskman` executable
- A command available in your system PATH

---

## Example: Manual Testing

You can test the MCP server manually:

```bash
# Initialize request
echo '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":1,"method":"initialize","params":{"protocolVersion":"2025-11-25","capabilities":{},"clientInfo":{"name":"test","version":"1.0"}}}' | taskman mcp

# List tools
echo '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":2,"method":"tools/list","params":{}}' | taskman mcp

# Call a tool (initialize database)
echo '{"jsonrpc":"2.0","id":3,"method":"tools/call","params":{"name":"taskman_init","arguments":{}}}' | taskman mcp
```

---

## Error Handling

- **Protocol errors** (invalid JSON, unknown method, unsupported protocol version): Returned as JSON-RPC errors with standard error codes (`-32700` Parse error, `-32600` Invalid Request, `-32601` Method not found, `-32602` Invalid params).
- **Business logic errors** (task not found, invalid phase, etc.): Returned in the `result` with `isError: true` and the error message in `content[0].text`.

---

See also: [README](README.md), [CLI Guide](USAGE_CLI.md), [Web Interface](USAGE_WEB.md). Users: [User changelog](CHANGELOG_USER.md). Developers: [BUILD](BUILD.md), [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md).
