USAGE.md, before:

# Taskman User Guide

**Taskman** is a command-line tool to manage project phases, milestones, and tasks in a SQLite database. It outputs JSON or plain text, suitable for integration with agents (project-manager, developers, writers, etc.).

For build and run instructions, see [BUILD.md](BUILD.md).

---

## 1. Database and initialization

### Environment variable

| Variable         | Description                       | Default            |
|------------------|-----------------------------------|--------------------|
| `TASKMAN_DB_NAME`| Path to the SQLite database file  | `project_tasks.db` |

Examples (bash):

```bash
export TASKMAN_DB_NAME=./my_project.db
# or inline:
TASKMAN_DB_NAME=./other.db taskman phase:list
```

On Windows (PowerShell):

```powershell
$env:TASKMAN_DB_NAME = ".\my_project.db"
```

### Initialize the database

Creates the `phases`, `milestones`, `tasks`, and `task_deps` tables (if they do not exist). Run once when starting a new project.

```bash
taskman init
```

If errors occur (e.g. corrupted database or orphan `.db-journal`), see the "disk I/O error" section in [BUILD.md](BUILD.md).

---

## 2. Phases

**Phases** structure the project (e.g. design, development, acceptance). Each has an id, name, status, and display order.

### `phase:add` — Create a phase

```bash
taskman phase:add --id <id> --name <name> [--status to_do|in_progress|done] [--sort-order <n>]
```

| Option        | Required | Description                                    | Default  |
|---------------|----------|------------------------------------------------|----------|
| `--id`        | yes      | Unique phase identifier                        | —        |
| `--name`      | yes      | Phase name                                     | —        |
| `--status`    | no       | `to_do`, `in_progress`, or `done`               | `to_do`  |
| `--sort-order`| no       | Integer for display order (`phase:list`)        | —        |

Examples:

```bash
taskman phase:add --id P1 --name "Design"
taskman phase:add --id P2 --name "Development" --status in_progress --sort-order 2
```

### `phase:edit` — Edit a phase

```bash
taskman phase:edit <id> [--name <name>] [--status to_do|in_progress|done] [--sort-order <n>]
```

Only the fields passed as options are updated. At least one option is required for a change to take effect.

Example:

```bash
taskman phase:edit P1 --status in_progress --sort-order 1
```

### `phase:list` — List phases

```bash
taskman phase:list
```

Output: JSON array of phases, sorted by `sort_order`. Each object has: `id`, `name`, `status`, `sort_order` (integer or `null`).

---

## 3. Milestones

**Milestones** are attached to a phase. They describe a goal (name, criterion) and whether it is reached (`reached`).

### `milestone:add` — Create a milestone

```bash
taskman milestone:add --id <id> --phase <phase_id> [--name <name>] [--criterion <text>] [--reached 0|1]
```

| Option       | Required | Description                          | Default |
|--------------|----------|--------------------------------------|---------|
| `--id`       | yes      | Unique milestone identifier          | —       |
| `--phase`    | yes      | Parent phase ID                      | —       |
| `--name`     | no       | Milestone name                       | —       |
| `--criterion`| no       | Success criterion                    | —       |
| `--reached`  | no       | `0` (not reached) or `1` (reached)   | `0`     |

Examples:

```bash
taskman milestone:add --id M1 --phase P1 --name "Specs approved" --criterion "Document signed off"
taskman milestone:add --id M2 --phase P2 --name "MVP delivered" --reached 1
```

### `milestone:edit` — Edit a milestone

```bash
taskman milestone:edit <id> [--name <name>] [--criterion <text>] [--reached 0|1] [--phase <phase_id>]
```

Partial update: only the provided options are changed.

Example:

```bash
taskman milestone:edit M1 --reached 1
```

### `milestone:list` — List milestones

```bash
taskman milestone:list [--phase <phase_id>]
```

| Option   | Description             |
|----------|-------------------------|
| `--phase`| Filter by phase ID      |

Output: JSON array. Fields: `id`, `phase_id`, `name`, `criterion`, `reached` (integer).

---

## 4. Tasks

**Tasks** are linked to a phase and optionally to a milestone. They have a title, description, status, assigned role, and can have dependencies. The ID is an auto-generated UUID v4 on creation.

### Allowed roles

`project-manager`, `project-designer`, `software-architect`, `developer`, `summary-writer`, `documentation-writer`.

### Statuses

`to_do`, `in_progress`, `done`.

### `task:add` — Create a task

```bash
taskman task:add --title <title> --phase <phase_id> [--description <text>] [--role <role>] [--milestone <milestone_id>] [--format json|text]
```

| Option         | Required | Description                              | Default |
|----------------|----------|------------------------------------------|---------|
| `--title`      | yes      | Task title                               | —       |
| `--phase`      | yes      | Phase ID                                 | —       |
| `--description`| no       | Description                              | —       |
| `--role`       | no       | One of the roles listed above            | —       |
| `--milestone`  | no       | Associated milestone ID                  | —       |
| `--format`     | no       | `json` or `text` for the created task   | `json`  |

The task is inserted with status `to_do`. Output shows the created task (same as `task:get`).

Examples:

```bash
taskman task:add --title "Write USAGE.md" --phase P1 --role documentation-writer --format text
taskman task:add --title "Implement login" --phase P2 --milestone M2 --description "API + UI"
```

### `task:get` — Show a task

```bash
taskman task:get <id> [--format json|text]
```

| Option   | Required | Description          | Default |
|----------|----------|----------------------|---------|
| `<id>`   | yes      | Task UUID            | —       |
| `--format`| no      | `json` or `text`     | `json`  |

With `text`, the order is: `title`, `description`, `status`, `role`, then `id`, `phase_id`, `milestone_id`, `sort_order`.

### `task:list` — List tasks

```bash
taskman task:list [--phase <id>] [--status <s>] [--role <r>] [--format json|text]
```

| Option     | Description                                          | Default |
|------------|------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| `--phase`  | Filter by phase ID                                  | —       |
| `--status` | Filter by status (`to_do`, `in_progress`, `done`)   | —       |
| `--role`   | Filter by role                                      | —       |
| `--format` | `json` (array) or `text` (blocks separated by `---`)| `json`  |

Sort order: `phase_id`, `sort_order`, `id`.

Examples:

```bash
taskman task:list --phase P2 --status in_progress
taskman task:list --role documentation-writer --format text
```

### `task:edit` — Edit a task

```bash
taskman task:edit <id> [--title <title>] [--description <text>] [--status to_do|in_progress|done] [--role <role>] [--milestone <milestone_id>]
```

Partial update: only the provided options are changed. At least one option is required for a change to take effect.

Example:

```bash
taskman task:edit <uuid> --status done
```

### `task:dep:add` — Add a dependency

Marks task `<task-id>` as depending on `<dep-id>` (task `dep-id` must be completed first).

```bash
taskman task:dep:add <task-id> <dep-id>
```

- Both tasks must exist.
- A task cannot depend on itself.
- If the dependency already exists, an error is returned.

Example:

```bash
taskman task:dep:add abc-123-def xyz-456-uvw
```

### `task:dep:remove` — Remove a dependency

```bash
taskman task:dep:remove <task-id> <dep-id>
```

---

## 5. Output formats

### JSON

- **phases**: `id`, `name`, `status`, `sort_order` (integer or `null`).
- **milestones**: `id`, `phase_id`, `name`, `criterion`, `reached` (integer).
- **tasks**: `id`, `phase_id`, `milestone_id`, `title`, `description`, `status`, `sort_order`, `role`. Empty optional fields are `null`.

Suitable for scripts, pipelines, and integration with other tools.

### Text (tasks only)

Human-readable format: `title`, `description`, `status`, `role`, then `id`, `phase_id`, `milestone_id`, `sort_order`. For `task:list --format text`, tasks are separated by `---`.

---

## 6. Exit codes

| Code | Meaning                                               |
|------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| `0`  | Success                                                |
| `1`  | Error (parsing, database, validation, or arguments)   |

Error messages are written to standard error (`stderr`).

---

## 7. Command summary

| Command           | Description                          |
|-------------------|--------------------------------------|
| `init`            | Create / initialize tables           |
| `phase:add`       | Add a phase                          |
| `phase:edit`      | Edit a phase                         |
| `phase:list`      | List phases (JSON)                   |
| `milestone:add`   | Add a milestone                      |
| `milestone:edit`  | Edit a milestone                     |
| `milestone:list`  | List milestones (option `--phase`)   |
| `task:add`        | Add a task (auto UUID)               |
| `task:get`        | Show a task                          |
| `task:list`       | List tasks (filters, `--format`)     |
| `task:edit`       | Edit a task                          |
| `task:dep:add`    | Add a task dependency                |
| `task:dep:remove` | Remove a dependency                  |

---

## 8. Example workflow

```bash
# 1. Initialize the database
taskman init

# 2. Create phases
taskman phase:add --id P1 --name "Design" --sort-order 1
taskman phase:add --id P2 --name "Development" --sort-order 2

# 3. Create a milestone
taskman milestone:add --id M1 --phase P1 --name "Specs approved"

# 4. Create tasks
taskman task:add --title "Write the specs" --phase P1 --milestone M1 --role project-designer
taskman task:add --title "Document the API" --phase P2 --role documentation-writer

# 5. List and filter
taskman phase:list
taskman task:list --phase P1 --format text

# 6. Update
taskman task:edit <task-uuid> --status done
taskman milestone:edit M1 --reached 1
```

---

See also: [README](README.md). Users: [User changelog](CHANGELOG_USER.md). Developers: [BUILD](BUILD.md), [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md).

Commit message:

Update to version 0.9.6, introducing support for in-memory journal mode to prevent "disk I/O error" in sandboxed environments like Cursor’s agent. Enhance BUILD.md with detailed instructions and update USAGE.md to include new environment variables. Add integration tests for the new functionality and document changes in CHANGELOG.

USAGE.md, after:

# Taskman User Guide

**Taskman** is a command-line tool to manage project phases, milestones, and tasks in a SQLite database. It outputs JSON or plain text, suitable for integration with agents (project-manager, developers, writers, etc.).

For build and run instructions, see [BUILD.md](BUILD.md).

---

## 1. Database and initialization

### Environment variable

| Variable                | Description                                                                 | Default            |
|-------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------|
| `TASKMAN_DB_NAME`       | Path to the SQLite database file                                            | `project_tasks.db` |
| `TASKMAN_JOURNAL_MEMORY`| Set to `1` to use an in-memory journal (avoids "disk I/O error" in sandboxes, e.g. Cursor agent) | not set            |
| `CURSOR_AGENT`          | When set by Cursor, taskman uses an in-memory journal automatically         | —                  |

Examples (bash):

```bash
export TASKMAN_DB_NAME=./my_project.db
# or inline:
TASKMAN_DB_NAME=./other.db taskman phase:list
```

On Windows (PowerShell):

```powershell
$env:TASKMAN_DB_NAME = ".\my_project.db"
```

### Initialize the database

Creates the `phases`, `milestones`, `tasks`, and `task_deps` tables (if they do not exist). Run once when starting a new project.

```bash
taskman init
```

If errors occur (e.g. corrupted database or orphan `.db-journal`), see [BUILD.md](BUILD.md). When using taskman from **Cursor’s agent**, `TASKMAN_JOURNAL_MEMORY=1` often fixes "disk I/O error" (see BUILD.md).

---

## 2. Phases

**Phases** structure the project (e.g. design, development, acceptance). Each has an id, name, status, and display order.

### `phase:add` — Create a phase

```bash
taskman phase:add --id <id> --name <name> [--status to_do|in_progress|done] [--sort-order <n>]
```

| Option        | Required | Description                                    | Default  |
|---------------|----------|------------------------------------------------|----------|
| `--id`        | yes      | Unique phase identifier                        | —        |
| `--name`      | yes      | Phase name                                     | —        |
| `--status`    | no       | `to_do`, `in_progress`, or `done`               | `to_do`  |
| `--sort-order`| no       | Integer for display order (`phase:list`)        | —        |

Examples:

```bash
taskman phase:add --id P1 --name "Design"
taskman phase:add --id P2 --name "Development" --status in_progress --sort-order 2
```

### `phase:edit` — Edit a phase

```bash
taskman phase:edit <id> [--name <name>] [--status to_do|in_progress|done] [--sort-order <n>]
```

Only the fields passed as options are updated. At least one option is required for a change to take effect.

Example:

```bash
taskman phase:edit P1 --status in_progress --sort-order 1
```

### `phase:list` — List phases

```bash
taskman phase:list
```

Output: JSON array of phases, sorted by `sort_order`. Each object has: `id`, `name`, `status`, `sort_order` (integer or `null`).

---

## 3. Milestones

**Milestones** are attached to a phase. They describe a goal (name, criterion) and whether it is reached (`reached`).

### `milestone:add` — Create a milestone

```bash
taskman milestone:add --id <id> --phase <phase_id> [--name <name>] [--criterion <text>] [--reached 0|1]
```

| Option       | Required | Description                          | Default |
|--------------|----------|--------------------------------------|---------|
| `--id`       | yes      | Unique milestone identifier          | —       |
| `--phase`    | yes      | Parent phase ID                      | —       |
| `--name`     | no       | Milestone name                       | —       |
| `--criterion`| no       | Success criterion                    | —       |
| `--reached`  | no       | `0` (not reached) or `1` (reached)   | `0`     |

Examples:

```bash
taskman milestone:add --id M1 --phase P1 --name "Specs approved" --criterion "Document signed off"
taskman milestone:add --id M2 --phase P2 --name "MVP delivered" --reached 1
```

### `milestone:edit` — Edit a milestone

```bash
taskman milestone:edit <id> [--name <name>] [--criterion <text>] [--reached 0|1] [--phase <phase_id>]
```

Partial update: only the provided options are changed.

Example:

```bash
taskman milestone:edit M1 --reached 1
```

### `milestone:list` — List milestones

```bash
taskman milestone:list [--phase <phase_id>]
```

| Option   | Description             |
|----------|-------------------------|
| `--phase`| Filter by phase ID      |

Output: JSON array. Fields: `id`, `phase_id`, `name`, `criterion`, `reached` (integer).

---

## 4. Tasks

**Tasks** are linked to a phase and optionally to a milestone. They have a title, description, status, assigned role, and can have dependencies. The ID is an auto-generated UUID v4 on creation.

### Allowed roles

`project-manager`, `project-designer`, `software-architect`, `developer`, `summary-writer`, `documentation-writer`.

### Statuses

`to_do`, `in_progress`, `done`.

### `task:add` — Create a task

```bash
taskman task:add --title <title> --phase <phase_id> [--description <text>] [--role <role>] [--milestone <milestone_id>] [--format json|text]
```

| Option         | Required | Description                              | Default |
|----------------|----------|------------------------------------------|---------|
| `--title`      | yes      | Task title                               | —       |
| `--phase`      | yes      | Phase ID                                 | —       |
| `--description`| no       | Description                              | —       |
| `--role`       | no       | One of the roles listed above            | —       |
| `--milestone`  | no       | Associated milestone ID                  | —       |
| `--format`     | no       | `json` or `text` for the created task   | `json`  |

The task is inserted with status `to_do`. Output shows the created task (same as `task:get`).

Examples:

```bash
taskman task:add --title "Write USAGE.md" --phase P1 --role documentation-writer --format text
taskman task:add --title "Implement login" --phase P2 --milestone M2 --description "API + UI"
```

### `task:get` — Show a task

```bash
taskman task:get <id> [--format json|text]
```

| Option   | Required | Description          | Default |
|----------|----------|----------------------|---------|
| `<id>`   | yes      | Task UUID            | —       |
| `--format`| no      | `json` or `text`     | `json`  |

With `text`, the order is: `title`, `description`, `status`, `role`, then `id`, `phase_id`, `milestone_id`, `sort_order`.

### `task:list` — List tasks

```bash
taskman task:list [--phase <id>] [--status <s>] [--role <r>] [--format json|text]
```

| Option     | Description                                          | Default |
|------------|------------------------------------------------------|---------|
| `--phase`  | Filter by phase ID                                  | —       |
| `--status` | Filter by status (`to_do`, `in_progress`, `done`)   | —       |
| `--role`   | Filter by role                                      | —       |
| `--format` | `json` (array) or `text` (blocks separated by `---`)| `json`  |

Sort order: `phase_id`, `sort_order`, `id`.

Examples:

```bash
taskman task:list --phase P2 --status in_progress
taskman task:list --role documentation-writer --format text
```

### `task:edit` — Edit a task

```bash
taskman task:edit <id> [--title <title>] [--description <text>] [--status to_do|in_progress|done] [--role <role>] [--milestone <milestone_id>]
```

Partial update: only the provided options are changed. At least one option is required for a change to take effect.

Example:

```bash
taskman task:edit <uuid> --status done
```

### `task:dep:add` — Add a dependency

Marks task `<task-id>` as depending on `<dep-id>` (task `dep-id` must be completed first).

```bash
taskman task:dep:add <task-id> <dep-id>
```

- Both tasks must exist.
- A task cannot depend on itself.
- If the dependency already exists, an error is returned.

Example:

```bash
taskman task:dep:add abc-123-def xyz-456-uvw
```

### `task:dep:remove` — Remove a dependency

```bash
taskman task:dep:remove <task-id> <dep-id>
```

---

## 5. Output formats

### JSON

- **phases**: `id`, `name`, `status`, `sort_order` (integer or `null`).
- **milestones**: `id`, `phase_id`, `name`, `criterion`, `reached` (integer).
- **tasks**: `id`, `phase_id`, `milestone_id`, `title`, `description`, `status`, `sort_order`, `role`. Empty optional fields are `null`.

Suitable for scripts, pipelines, and integration with other tools.

### Text (tasks only)

Human-readable format: `title`, `description`, `status`, `role`, then `id`, `phase_id`, `milestone_id`, `sort_order`. For `task:list --format text`, tasks are separated by `---`.

---

## 6. Exit codes

| Code | Meaning                                               |
|------|--------------------------------------------------------|
| `0`  | Success                                                |
| `1`  | Error (parsing, database, validation, or arguments)   |

Error messages are written to standard error (`stderr`).

---

## 7. Command summary

| Command           | Description                          |
|-------------------|--------------------------------------|
| `init`            | Create / initialize tables           |
| `phase:add`       | Add a phase                          |
| `phase:edit`      | Edit a phase                         |
| `phase:list`      | List phases (JSON)                   |
| `milestone:add`   | Add a milestone                      |
| `milestone:edit`  | Edit a milestone                     |
| `milestone:list`  | List milestones (option `--phase`)   |
| `task:add`        | Add a task (auto UUID)               |
| `task:get`        | Show a task                          |
| `task:list`       | List tasks (filters, `--format`)     |
| `task:edit`       | Edit a task                          |
| `task:dep:add`    | Add a task dependency                |
| `task:dep:remove` | Remove a dependency                  |

---

## 8. Example workflow

```bash
# 1. Initialize the database
taskman init

# 2. Create phases
taskman phase:add --id P1 --name "Design" --sort-order 1
taskman phase:add --id P2 --name "Development" --sort-order 2

# 3. Create a milestone
taskman milestone:add --id M1 --phase P1 --name "Specs approved"

# 4. Create tasks
taskman task:add --title "Write the specs" --phase P1 --milestone M1 --role project-designer
taskman task:add --title "Document the API" --phase P2 --role documentation-writer

# 5. List and filter
taskman phase:list
taskman task:list --phase P1 --format text

# 6. Update
taskman task:edit <task-uuid> --status done
taskman milestone:edit M1 --reached 1
```

---

See also: [README](README.md). Users: [User changelog](CHANGELOG_USER.md). Developers: [BUILD](BUILD.md), [CHANGELOG](CHANGELOG.md).
