docs/USAGE_WEB.md, before:

# Taskman Web Interface

The **Taskman** web interface provides a browser-based UI to view and manage your project tasks, phases, and milestones.

---

## Starting the Web Server

Launch the HTTP server to access the web interface from your browser.

```bash
taskman web # default: 127.0.0.1:8080
taskman web --host 0.0.0.0 --port 3000
```

| Option    | Description           | Default      |
|-----------|-----------------------|--------------|
| `--host`  | Listen address        | `127.0.0.1`  |
| `--port`  | Port (1–65535)        | `8080`       |

---

## Static Assets

### GET /

Serves the main HTML page with embedded assets. The page includes:
- `style.css` - Stylesheet
- `filters.js` - Filtering module (type=module)
- `pagination.js` - Pagination module (type=module)
- `main.js` - Main application module (type=module)

### GET /style.css

Returns the CSS stylesheet.

### GET /filters.js

Returns the JavaScript filtering module.

### GET /pagination.js

Returns the JavaScript pagination module.

### GET /main.js

Returns the main JavaScript application module.

---

## Task Endpoints

### GET /task/:id

Returns a single task in JSON format. Returns 404 if the task is not found.

**Response:** JSON object with task fields (id, phase_id, milestone_id, title, description, status, sort_order, role).

### GET /task/:id/deps

Returns the dependencies for a specific task.

**Response:** JSON array of objects with `task_id` and `depends_on` fields. Returns 404 if the task is not found.

### GET /tasks

Returns a paginated list of tasks in JSON format.

**Query parameters:**

| Parameter   | Description                                    | Default | Range      |
|-------------|------------------------------------------------|---------|------------|
| `limit`     | Number of tasks per page                       | `50`    | 1–200      |
| `page`      | Page number (1-based)                          | `1`     | ≥1         |
| `phase`     | Filter by phase ID (optional)                  | —       | —          |
| `milestone` | Filter by milestone ID (optional)              | —       | —          |
| `status`    | Filter by status (optional)                    | —       | See below  |
| `role`      | Filter by role (optional)                      | —       | See below  |

**Valid status values:** `to_do`, `in_progress`, `done`

**Valid role values:** `project-manager`, `project-designer`, `software-architect`, `developer`, `summary-writer`, `documentation-writer`

**Response:** JSON array of task objects, ordered by `phase_id`, `sort_order`, `id`.

### GET /tasks/count

Returns the total count of tasks matching the specified filters.

**Query parameters:** Same as `/tasks` (phase, milestone, status, role).

**Response:** JSON object with `count` field.

### GET /task_deps

Returns a paginated list of task dependencies.

**Query parameters:**

| Parameter | Description                    | Default | Range      |
|-----------|--------------------------------|---------|------------|
| `limit`   | Number of dependencies per page | `100`   | 1–500      |
| `page`    | Page number (1-based)           | `1`     | ≥1         |
| `task_id` | Filter by task ID (optional)    | —       | —          |

**Response:** JSON array of objects with `task_id` and `depends_on` fields, ordered by `task_id`, `depends_on`.

---

## Milestone Endpoints

### GET /milestone/:id

Returns a single milestone in JSON format. Returns 404 if the milestone is not found.

**Response:** JSON object with milestone fields (id, phase_id, name, criterion, reached).

### GET /milestones

Returns a paginated list of milestones in JSON format.

**Query parameters:**

| Parameter | Description                    | Default | Range |
|-----------|--------------------------------|---------|-------|
| `limit`   | Number of milestones per page   | `30`    | 1–100 |
| `page`    | Page number (1-based)           | `1`     | ≥1    |

**Response:** JSON array of milestone objects, ordered by `phase_id`, `id`.

---

## Phase Endpoints

### GET /phase/:id

Returns a single phase in JSON format. Returns 404 if the phase is not found.

**Response:** JSON object with phase fields (id, name, status, sort_order).

### GET /phases

Returns a paginated list of phases in JSON format.

**Query parameters:**

| Parameter | Description                  | Default | Range |
|-----------|------------------------------|---------|-------|
| `limit`   | Number of phases per page    | `30`    | 1–100 |
| `page`    | Page number (1-based)        | `1`     | ≥1    |

**Response:** JSON array of phase objects, ordered by `sort_order`.

---

## Features

The web interface provides:

- **Task listing** with pagination
- **Filtering** by phase, milestone, status, and role
- **Task details** view with dependencies
- **Milestone and phase** browsing
- **Responsive design** for desktop and mobile

---

See also: [README](../README.md), [CLI Guide](USAGE_CLI.md), [MCP Server](USAGE_MCP.md). Users: [User changelog](CHANGELOG_USER.md). Developers: [BUILD](BUILD.md), [CHANGELOG](../CHANGELOG.md).

Commit message:

Enhance web server functionality and documentation for asset serving
This commit introduces a new `--serve-assets-from <dir>` option for the `taskman web` command, allowing developers to serve CSS and JS files directly from a specified directory during development. The documentation is updated to reflect this change, providing examples for usage. Additionally, the web server implementation is modified to read asset files from the specified directory if provided, improving the development workflow by enabling live editing without recompilation. Various UI enhancements are also made, including updated styles and improved task status display.

docs/USAGE_WEB.md, after:

# Taskman Web Interface

The **Taskman** web interface provides a browser-based UI to view and manage your project tasks, phases, and milestones.

---

## Starting the Web Server

Launch the HTTP server to access the web interface from your browser.

```bash
taskman web # default: 127.0.0.1:8080
taskman web --host 0.0.0.0 --port 3000
taskman web --serve-assets-from src/web   # dev: serve CSS/JS from disk, edit and refresh without recompile
```

| Option                 | Description                               | Default      |
|------------------------|-------------------------------------------|--------------|
| `--host`               | Listen address                            | `127.0.0.1`  |
| `--port`               | Port (1–65535)                            | `8080`       |
| `--serve-assets-from`  | Serve CSS/JS from directory (dev mode)    | *(embedded)* |

### Development (faster UI iteration)

Use `--serve-assets-from <dir>` so the server reads CSS and JS from the given directory instead of the embedded build. Example from the project root:

```bash
taskman web --serve-assets-from src/web
```

Edit `src/web/style.css`, `src/web/main.js`, etc., then refresh the browser — no recompile needed. The binary still embeds assets; this option only changes how they are served at runtime.

---

## Static Assets

### GET /

Serves the main HTML page with embedded assets. The page includes:
- `style.css` - Stylesheet
- `filters.js` - Filtering module (type=module)
- `pagination.js` - Pagination module (type=module)
- `main.js` - Main application module (type=module)

### GET /style.css

Returns the CSS stylesheet.

### GET /filters.js

Returns the JavaScript filtering module.

### GET /pagination.js

Returns the JavaScript pagination module.

### GET /main.js

Returns the main JavaScript application module.

---

## Task Endpoints

### GET /task/:id

Returns a single task in JSON format. Returns 404 if the task is not found.

**Response:** JSON object with task fields (id, phase_id, milestone_id, title, description, status, sort_order, role).

### GET /task/:id/deps

Returns the dependencies for a specific task.

**Response:** JSON array of objects with `task_id` and `depends_on` fields. Returns 404 if the task is not found.

### GET /tasks

Returns a paginated list of tasks in JSON format.

**Query parameters:**

| Parameter   | Description                                    | Default | Range      |
|-------------|------------------------------------------------|---------|------------|
| `limit`     | Number of tasks per page                       | `50`    | 1–200      |
| `page`      | Page number (1-based)                          | `1`     | ≥1         |
| `phase`     | Filter by phase ID (optional)                  | —       | —          |
| `milestone` | Filter by milestone ID (optional)              | —       | —          |
| `status`    | Filter by status (optional)                    | —       | See below  |
| `role`      | Filter by role (optional)                      | —       | See below  |

**Valid status values:** `to_do`, `in_progress`, `done`

**Valid role values:** `project-manager`, `project-designer`, `software-architect`, `developer`, `summary-writer`, `documentation-writer`

**Response:** JSON array of task objects, ordered by `phase_id`, `sort_order`, `id`.

### GET /tasks/count

Returns the total count of tasks matching the specified filters.

**Query parameters:** Same as `/tasks` (phase, milestone, status, role).

**Response:** JSON object with `count` field.

### GET /task_deps

Returns a paginated list of task dependencies.

**Query parameters:**

| Parameter | Description                    | Default | Range      |
|-----------|--------------------------------|---------|------------|
| `limit`   | Number of dependencies per page | `100`   | 1–500      |
| `page`    | Page number (1-based)           | `1`     | ≥1         |
| `task_id` | Filter by task ID (optional)    | —       | —          |

**Response:** JSON array of objects with `task_id` and `depends_on` fields, ordered by `task_id`, `depends_on`.

---

## Milestone Endpoints

### GET /milestone/:id

Returns a single milestone in JSON format. Returns 404 if the milestone is not found.

**Response:** JSON object with milestone fields (id, phase_id, name, criterion, reached).

### GET /milestones

Returns a paginated list of milestones in JSON format.

**Query parameters:**

| Parameter | Description                    | Default | Range |
|-----------|--------------------------------|---------|-------|
| `limit`   | Number of milestones per page   | `30`    | 1–100 |
| `page`    | Page number (1-based)           | `1`     | ≥1    |

**Response:** JSON array of milestone objects, ordered by `phase_id`, `id`.

---

## Phase Endpoints

### GET /phase/:id

Returns a single phase in JSON format. Returns 404 if the phase is not found.

**Response:** JSON object with phase fields (id, name, status, sort_order).

### GET /phases

Returns a paginated list of phases in JSON format.

**Query parameters:**

| Parameter | Description                  | Default | Range |
|-----------|------------------------------|---------|-------|
| `limit`   | Number of phases per page    | `30`    | 1–100 |
| `page`    | Page number (1-based)        | `1`     | ≥1    |

**Response:** JSON array of phase objects, ordered by `sort_order`.

---

## Features

The web interface provides:

- **Task listing** with pagination
- **Filtering** by phase, milestone, status, and role
- **Task details** view with dependencies
- **Milestone and phase** browsing
- **Responsive design** for desktop and mobile

---

See also: [README](../README.md), [CLI Guide](USAGE_CLI.md), [MCP Server](USAGE_MCP.md). Users: [User changelog](CHANGELOG_USER.md). Developers: [BUILD](BUILD.md), [CHANGELOG](../CHANGELOG.md).
